[New Concept Documents] : comparisons concept #2456 (#2733)
exercism/python: concepts/comparisons/about.md

# About

> A comparison operator in python, also called python relational operator, compares the values of two operands and returns `True` or `False` based on whether the condition is met. The most common comparison operators are `"<"`, `">"`, `"=="`, `">="`, `"<="`, `"!="`, `"is"`

Reviewer: This should be updated similarly to BethanyG's suggestion above.

Reviewer 2: Closing this, since I've made a suggestion below.

> A comparison operator in python, also called python relational operator, compares the values of two operands and returns `True` or `False` based on whether the condition is met. The most common comparison operators are `"<"`, `">"`, `"=="`, `">="`, `"<="`, `"!="`, `"is"`

Author: @BethanyG Have added the link at the end of the document and an example of comparison priority. 

Let me know if this looks good.

```python
>>> 7 > 5
True
>>> 99 < 100
True
>>> 4 < 4
False
>>> 4 <= 4
True
>>> 1 >= 1
True
>>> 5 == 5
True

> >>> 6 != 6 # not equal to

Reviewer: Line-end comments should have two spaces before the `#`

Author: Okay. Done

Author: Just pushed it. Check now

False
>>> 5 != 6
True
```

## Comparison Chaining

> Comparisons can be chained arbitrarily, e.g., `x < y <= z` is equivalent to `x < y` `and` `y <= z`, except that `y` is evaluated only once (but in both cases `z` is _not_ evaluated at all when `x < y` is found to be `False`).

Reviewer: Would it be worth mentioning the technical term for this (short circuit evaluation)?

Reviewer 2: Short-circuting gets mentioned for `bools`, which comes after this in the progression.  But I would be OK with adding it here.

Author: I myself didn't knew that this technique is called `short circuit` evaluation ☺️
Updated the note.

> Also unlike `C`, expressions like `a < b < c` have the interpretation that is conventional in mathematics.

Reviewer: This sentence is confusing. Does it only make sense if I know C?

Reviewer 3: Yes, the sentence is a bit confusing. I'd suggest we try to not use _short-hands_ like "e.g.", I mean yes it is proper English, but as a non-native English speaker myself "for example" doesn't really come to mind when reading "e.g.".

Also, `line 26` is _one_ sentence. We might need to keep to a general rule of thumb of `15 words MAX per line`. Splitting up the sentence into two or three should help that out quite a bit. 

But remember, don't "dumb it down" too much, we do require the students to know some basic English and know how to do simple text-based exercises (like back in school).

@IsaacG, please when commenting on code. "This sentence is confusing" is not enough. Could you **please** give either a reason why and/or a way it could improve? I don't want the contributor feel confused, and it also might strengthen the `imposter syndrome` that is inside every coder because they might not see the same thing that you or I see. Thank you.

Also, will I will be looking at @BethanyG's comment on this part.

Author: I am not very sure if should keep that sentence. Perhaps we can remove it to avoid all confusion. Let me know.

Reviewer 2: @gurupratap-matharu - I think it may be an important to keep.  Python is an exception in interpreting three-way comparison mathematically with "basic" operators. Most other languages either define a new operator (see the spaceship for C++), or they define purpose-built methods instead of operators. 

See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-way_comparison and https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/316969/why-do-most-mainstream-languages-not-support-x-y-z-syntax-for-3-way-boolea.  For more details.

I suggest the following re-wording for the sentence:

Unlike in the `C` programming language (among other statically-typed languages), three-way operator comparisons in Python such as `a < b < c` have a conventional mathematical interpretation and precedence.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to spell out what the conventional interpretation and precedence *is*? I haven't majored in math and I haven't written C in over a decade. Wikipedia (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-way_comparison) doesn't make it immediately obvious to me what this sentence is telling me, ie what the various interpretations and precedences are.

> Also unlike `C`, expressions like `a < b < c` have the interpretation that is conventional in mathematics.

Reviewer 2: It's exactly the _opposite_.  Python is an exception in interpreting three-way comparison mathematically with "basic" operators.  Most other languages either define a new operator (see the spaceship for C++), or they define purpose-built methods instead of operators.  See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-way_comparison and https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/316969/why-do-most-mainstream-languages-not-support-x-y-z-syntax-for-3-way-boolea.

```python

> >>> x, y, z = 2, 5, 10

Reviewer: Is unpacking a prereq for this concept?

Reviewer 2: No.  Unpacking appears further "down" the tree.  Left this alone since the example seemed pretty verbose as it stands.  But we probably should change it.

Author: Okay. Turned this into simple declaration

>>> x < y < z
True
>>> x < y > z
False
>>> x > y < z
False
```

## Comparison of different data types

> Since everything in `python` represents an `object` things start getting interesting when we compare objects of different types. For example, the `string` value of a number is considered a completely different value from the `integer` or `floating-point` version, an `integer` can be equal to a `floating point`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `python`, all data is a type of `object`.
Things get interesting when we compare objects of different types.
For example, the `str` representation of a number is never equal to the `int` or `float` version but the `int` and `float` values can be equal.
```

> Since everything in `python` represents an `object` things start getting interesting when we compare objects of different types. For example, the `string` value of a number is considered a completely different value from the `integer` or `floating-point` version, an `integer` can be equal to a `floating point`.

Author: @BethanyG 

The link has been added along with an example of complex number comparison.
But I am not sure how to show examples of comparing `hex`, `ocal` and `binary` as their representations are strings in python

Do you think this example will work?

`python
>>> bin(88)
'0b1011000'
>>> int('0b1011000', 2)
88
>>> 

>>> a=int('01100000', 2)
>>> b=int('00100110', 2)
>>> bin(a & b)
'0b100000'
>>> bin(a | b)
'0b1100110'
>>> bin(a ^ b)
'0b1000110'`

```python
>>> 17 == '17'
False
>>> 17 == 17.0
True
>>> 17.0 == 0017.000
True
```

> Python makes this distinction because strings are text, while `integers` and `floats` are both numbers.

Reviewer: `integers` is not a value type.

Author: Do you mean we should `int` there? Sorry I didn't get you here.

## Value Comparison

> The operators `<`, `>`, `==`, `>=`, `<=`, and `!=` compare the `values` of two objects. The objects do not need to have the same type. Remember that in python

Reviewer: Line break on periods, not ... 160 chars?
`values` is not a valid type. Use `""` for English concepts and backticks for valid Python objects.

> every object has a `value` in addition to `type` and `identity`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
every object has a `value` in addition to `type` and `identity`.

```

> Following are comparison behaviour of most `built-ins` types

Reviewer: Missing period. Should this be a header?

Author: I have added the period. I felt its a sub-heading so I gave it an <h3> tag. What do you think?

Numbers of built-in numeric types like `int`, `float` and of the standard library types `fractions.Fraction` and `decimal.Decimal` can be compared within and across their types.

Any ordered comparison of a number to a not-a-number value is `False`. A counter-intuitive implication is that not-a-number values are not equal to themselves.

```python
>>> x = float('NaN')
>>> x
nan
>>> 3 < x
False
>>> x < 3
False
>>> x == x
False
```

> `Strings` compare lexicographically using the numerical Unicode code points (the result of the built-in function ord()) of their characters. `Strings` and `binary` sequences cannot be directly compared.

Author: This is really a nice suggestion. I had to look up how to make these words as I've never worked with these languages. 

I've added two examples - Chinese and Korean. Let me know if these would suffice. 
Thanks

```python
>>> 'santa' < 'claus'
False
>>> 'Santa' < 'claus'
True
>>> ord('s')
115
>>> ord('S')
83
>>> ord('c')
99
```

> Collections like `list`, `set`, `tuple` and `dict` can be compared too if they are of the same type, have the same length, and each pair of corresponding elements must compare equal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collections like `list`, `set`, `tuple` and `dict` can be compared if they are of the same type, have the same length.
They are equal if each pair of corresponding elements is equal.

```

Author: I took the suggested change by Bethany below for this note. Please check and let me know if it works

```python

> >>> [1,2] == [1, 2]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> [1, 2] == [1, 2]
```

True
>>> (1, 2) == [1, 2]
False
>>> [1, 2] < [1, 2, 3]
True
>>> # comparison of dicts
>>> {'name': 'John', 'age': 19} == {'name': 'John', 'age': 18}
False
>>> {'name': 'John', 'age': 19} == {'name': 'John', 'age': 19}
True
```

## Identity comparisons

> The operators `is` and `is not` test for an object’s identity. An Object’s identity is determined using the `id()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operators `is` and `is not` test for an object's identity. An object's identity is determined using the `id()` function.

```

Author: Nice pick. This has been updated. Please check and close

> `x is y` is `True` if and only if `x` and `y` are the same object. `x` is not y` yields the inverse truth value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`x is y` is `True` if and only if `x` and `y` are the same object. `x is not y` yields the inverse truth value.

```

> `x is y` is `True` if and only if `x` and `y` are the same object. `x` is not y` yields the inverse truth value.

Author: Got it. I changed it to `apple` and `orange` ☺️ Does that work?

```python

> >>> x = [1,2,3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> x = [1, 2, 3]
```

>>> y = x
>>> x == y
True
>>> id(x)
4462635008
>>> id(y)
4462635008
>>> x is not y
False

> ```

Author: Sure. I have changed the example code. Please check. Thanks

> ```

Reviewer 2: This looks good!  Thanks.  😄

## Membership test operations

> The operators `in` and `not in` test for membership. `a` in `s` evaluates to `True` if `a` is a member of s, and `False` otherwise. `a not in s` returns the negation of `a in s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operators `in` and `not in` test for membership. `a in s` evaluates to `True` if `a` is a member of `s`, and `False` otherwise. `a not in s` returns the negation of `a in s`.

```

Reviewer 2: Again, closing this in favor of a non-single letter variable version below.

> The operators `in` and `not in` test for membership. `a` in `s` evaluates to `True` if `a` is a member of s, and `False` otherwise. `a not in s` returns the negation of `a in s`.

Author: This is done. Please check if it looks good

> For the string and bytes types, `a` in `s` is `True` if and only if `a` is a substring of `b`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the string and bytes types, `a in s` is `True` if and only if `a` is a substring of `s`.

```

Reviewer 2: @IsaacG  -- We want to avoid single-letter variable and string names where possible.  so I think this line needs to be re-written as well as re-formatted.

Author: Okay rewrote this example with better variable names. Please check. Does that look good to you?

```python
s = {11, 22, 33}
>>> 22 in s
True
>>> 44 in s
False
>>>
>>> employee = {'name': 'John Doe', 'id': 67826, 'age': 33, 'title': 'ceo'}
>>> 'age' in employee
True
>>> 33 in employee
False
>>> 'lastname' not in employee
True
>>>

> >>> name = "Super Batman"

Reviewer: Quotes (single vs double) is inconsistent.

Author: Got it. Changed double quotes to single ones for consistency

# About

> A [comparison operator][comparisons] in Python (_also called a Python relational operator_), looks at the values of two operands and returns `True` or `False` based on whether the `comparison` condition is met. The most common comparison operators are `"<"`, `">"`, `"=="`, `">="`, `"<="`, and `"!="`. They all have the same priority (which is higher than that of the Boolean operations)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A [comparison operator][comparisons] in Python (_also called a Python relational operator_), looks at the values of two operands and returns `True` or `False` based on whether the `comparison` condition is met.
The most common comparison operators are `"<"`, `">"`, `"=="`, `">="`, `"<="`, and `"!="`.
They all have the same priority (which is higher than that of the Boolean operations).
```

Missing period added as well…

As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

```python
>>> 7 > 5
True
>>> 99 < 100
True
>>> 4 < 4
False
>>> 4 <= 4
True
>>> 1 >= 1
True
>>> 5 == 5
True
>>> 6 != 6  # not equal to
False
>>> 5 != 6
True
>>> not 3 == 3  # interpreted as not(3 == 3)
False
```

## Comparison Chaining

> Comparisons can be chained arbitrarily, e.g., `x < y <= z` is equivalent to `x < y` `and` `y <= z`, except that `y` is evaluated only once (but in both cases `z` is _not_ evaluated at all when `x < y` is found to be `False`). This is also called `short-circuit` evaluation which means the execution is stopped if the truth value of the expression has already been determined. Note that the evaluation of expression takes place from left to right. In python, short circuiting is supported by various boolean operators, functions and, in this case, comparison chaining.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Comparisons can be chained arbitrarily, e.g., `x < y <= z` is equivalent to `x < y` `and` `y <= z`, except that `y` is evaluated only once (but in both cases `z` is _not_ evaluated at all when `x < y` is found to be `False`).
This is also called `short-circuit` evaluation which means the execution is stopped if the truth value of the expression has already been determined.
Note that the evaluation of expression takes place from left to right.
In python, short circuiting is supported by various boolean operators, functions and, in this case, comparison chaining.
```

As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

Also unlike `C`, expressions like `a < b < c` have the interpretation that is conventional in mathematics.

```python
>>> x = 2
>>> y = 5
>>> z = 10
>>> x < y < z
True
>>> x < y > z
False
>>> x > y < z
False
```

## Comparison between different data types

> Since everything in Python is an `object`, things can get interesting when objects of different types are compared. For example, the `str` value of a number is considered completely different from the `integer` or `floating-point` value. However, an `integer` **can** be considered equal to a `float`, as they are both numeric types that Python can implicitly convert to compare. For other numeric types, comparison operators are defined where they "make sense", but throw a `TypeError` if the underlying objects cannot be converted for comparison. For more information on the rules that python uses for numeric conversion, see [arithmetic conversions][arithmetic conversions] in the Python documentation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Since everything in Python is an `object`, things can get interesting when objects of different types are compared.
For example, the `str` value of a number is considered completely different from the `integer` or `floating-point` value.
However, an `integer` **can** be considered equal to a `float`, as they are both numeric types that Python can implicitly convert to compare.
For other numeric types, comparison operators are defined where they "make sense", but throw a `TypeError` if the underlying objects cannot be converted for comparison.
For more information on the rules that python uses for numeric conversion, see [arithmetic conversions][arithmetic conversions] in the Python documentation.
```

As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

```python
>>> 17 == '17'
False
>>> 17 == 17.0
True
>>> 17.0 == 0017.000
True
>>> complex(1, 2) == complex(1.0, 2.00)
True
```

Python makes this distinction because strings are text, while `integers` and `floats` are numeric types.

## Value Comparison

> The operators `<`, `>`, `==`, `>=`, `<=`, and `!=` compare the _values_ of two different objects. The objects do not need to have the same type. Remember that in Python
> 
> every object has a `value` in addition to `type` and `identity`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The operators `<`, `>`, `==`, `>=`, `<=`, and `!=` compare the _values_ of two different objects.
The objects do not need to have the same type.
Remember that in Python every object has a `value` in addition to `type` and `identity`.
```

As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

### Following are comparison behaviour of most `built-ins` types.

Numbers of built-in _numeric_ types such as `int`, `hex`, `ocal`, `binary`, `float`, `complex` and of the standard library types `fractions.Fraction` and `decimal.Decimal` can be compared within and across their types.

> Any ordered comparison of a number to a `NaN` (_not a number_) value is `False`. A counter-intuitive implication is that `NaN` never compares equal to `NaN`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Any ordered comparison of a number to a `NaN` (_not a number_) value is `False`. 
A counter-intuitive implication is that `NaN` never compares equal to `NaN`.
```

As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

```python
>>> x = float('NaN')
>>> x
nan
>>> 3 < x
False
>>> x < 3
False
>>> x == x
False
```

> Strings (`str`) are compared _lexicographically_ using their individual numerical Unicode code points (_the result of passing each code point in the `str` to the built-in function `ord()`_). `str` and `binary` sequences cannot be directly compared.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Strings (`str`) are compared _lexicographically_ using their individual numerical Unicode code points (_the result of passing each code point in the `str` to the built-in function `ord()`_).
`str` and `binary` sequences cannot be directly compared.
```

As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

```python
>>> 'santa' < 'claus'
False
>>> 'Santa' < 'claus'
True
>>> ord('s')
115
>>> ord('S')
83
>>> ord('c')
99

> >>> '龙波' < '王想'  # chinese words

Reviewer 2: @gurupratap-matharu  -- Please put the translation of the words in the comment.  Please also capitalize the language -- is this Mandarin or Cantonese or another Sinitic language?

Author: @BethanyG  -- Sure! Earlier these words were abstract names.

- Now I've changed them to be common words
- Their English translations has been added
- You can verify these words on google translate. Just put language detection to be automatic.

Reviewer 2: @gurupratap-matharu  - I am not seeing a change to the text here?  Did you push a change?

False
>>> # check ord() of first letters
>>> ord('龙')
40857
>>> ord('王')
29579
>>>
>>>

> >>> # let's try korean words

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>>> # let's try korean words
Similar comment as to the above:  the language should be Korean, with a capital K.  Also please put in the translation.  Thanks!
```

> >>> '이서윤' < '김은정'

Reviewer 2: Same comments as above.  These don't appear to be Korean words, at leas none I can translate using Google.  Could you add the translation to the comment please?  Also -- Korean with a capital K.  Thanks!

Author: Okay. I have changed the Korean words as well.
Try them as well on google translate. 

```python
>>> # let's try Korean words
>>> '예쁜' < '아름다운'  # pretty < beautiful
False
>>> ord('예'), ord('아')
(50696, 50500)
```

Reviewer 2: @gurupratap-matharu Did this change get made to the text?  I'm not seeing it.

False
# compare their first letters
>>> ord('이') < ord('김')
False
```

Collections like `list`, `set`, `tuple` and `dict` can also be compared -- provided they are of the same `type`, have the same length, and each _**pair**_ of corresponding elements within the collection are comparable.

```python
>>> [1, 2] == [1, 2]
True
>>> (1, 2) == [1, 2]
False
>>> [1, 2] < [1, 2, 3]
True
>>> # comparison of dicts
>>> {'name': 'John', 'age': 19} == {'name': 'John', 'age': 18}
False
>>> {'name': 'John', 'age': 19} == {'name': 'John', 'age': 19}
True
```

## Identity comparisons

> The operators `is` and `is not` test for an object's _identity_. An object's identity is determined using the `id()` function.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The operators `is` and `is not` test for an object's _identity_.
An object's identity is determined using the `id()` function.
```

As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

> `apple is orange` is `True` if and only if `apple` and `orange` are the same object. `apple is not orange` yields the inverse truth value.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`apple is orange` is `True` if and only if `apple` and `orange` are the same object.
`apple is not orange` yields the inverse truth value.
```

As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

```python
>>> my_fav_numbers = [1, 2, 3]
>>> your_fav_numbers = my_fav_numbers
>>> my_fav_numbers == your_fav_numbers
True
>>> id(my_fav_numbers)
4462635008
>>> id(your_fav_numbers)
4462635008
>>> my_fav_numbers is not your_fav_numbers
False
```

## Membership test operations

> The operators `in` and `not in` test for _membership_. `fish in soup` evaluates to `True` if `fish` is a member of `soup`, and evaluates `False` otherwise. `fish not in soup` returns the negation, or _opposite of_ `fish in soup`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The operators `in` and `not in` test for _membership_.
`fish in soup` evaluates to `True` if `fish` is a member of `soup`, and evaluates `False` otherwise.
`fish not in soup` returns the negation, or _opposite of_ `fish in soup`.

```
As per the [build markdown][1] style guide; single sentence per line.

[1]: https://github.com/exercism/docs/blob/main/building/markdown/markdown.md

True
>>> 6 != 6  # not equal to
False
>>> 5 != 6
True
>>> not 3 == 3  # interpreted as not(3 == 3)
False
```

## Comparison Chaining

Comparisons can be chained arbitrarily, e.g., `x < y <= z` is equivalent to `x < y` `and` `y <= z`, except that `y` is evaluated only once (but in both cases `z` is _not_ evaluated at all when `x < y` is found to be `False`).
This is also called `short-circuit` evaluation which means the execution is stopped if the truth value of the expression has already been determined.
Note that the evaluation of expression takes place from left to right.
In python, short circuiting is supported by various boolean operators, functions and, in this case, comparison chaining.

Also unlike `C`, expressions like `a < b < c` have the interpretation that is conventional in mathematics.

```python
>>> x = 2
>>> y = 5
>>> z = 10
>>> x < y < z
True
>>> x < y > z
False
>>> x > y < z
False
```

## Comparison between different data types

Since everything in Python is an `object`, things can get interesting when objects of different types are compared.
For example, the `str` value of a number is considered completely different from the `integer` or `floating-point` value.

> However, an `integer` **can** be considered equal to a `float`, as they are both numeric types that Python can implicitly convert to compare.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python makes this distinction because strings are text, while `integers` and `floats` are numeric types.

However, an `integer` **can** be considered equal to a `float`, as they are both numeric types that Python can implicitly convert to compare.

```

For other numeric types, comparison operators are defined where they "make sense", but throw a `TypeError` if the underlying objects cannot be converted for comparison.
For more information on the rules that python uses for numeric conversion, see [arithmetic conversions][arithmetic conversions] in the Python documentation.

```python
>>> 17 == '17'
False
>>> 17 == 17.0
True
>>> 17.0 == 0017.000
True
>>> complex(1, 2) == complex(1.0, 2.00)
True
```

> Python makes this distinction because strings are text, while `integers` and `floats` are numeric types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
